TRAINER PREPARATION and METHODOLOGY

Learn and Use draw.io
Learn important tools from the subject UI-UX (what is important for our training)

HTML-5 (Advanced) tags 

Industry standards w.r.t. html elements

Industry standards w.r.t. css
For axample, for add button use bootstrap success color
for edit/update button use bootstrap warning color
for delete button, use danger color

Must learn basics of UI-UX
And trainers must explain this to students and imprtant features must be implemented.

Refer only or compulsorily the official documentation for all technologies.
developer.mozilla.org

Use vs code IDE

Must use github and students too must use github

REAL LIFE EXAMPLES MUST BE USED

METHODOLOGIES:

Session1:

ONLY for Day1: Star with introduction as given in the day wise schedule.

Recap of yesterday's training/content (5 minutes)
JAM (5 minutes)
Q&A (5 minutes)
Todays class in breif (5 minutes)
Explanation of the topics
Design
Recap of session1

Session2:
Implement the examples/topics explained in session1
Engage with the students
Recap of session2

NOTE: In session2, the trainers will implement and students will observe and also copy paste and implement.

Session3:
Students will implement the assignments
Assessment
Feedback
Recap, Q&A and JAM
Tomorrow's Content in brief

*** NOTE: Trainers must remember all the names of the students in the 1st 2 days.
Trainers must encourage and see that the students are answering.
Trainers must ask questions to students by calling their names.

Prepare PPTs with diagrams, images, animations etc. Use Free AI tools from internet

The PPTs must only add the TOC, very important topics.
The trainer will use the PPTs only during the breifing (start and end of the day)

The Material/Notes must be prepared by the trainer and stored in text or word file which must be shared with the students.

Files and Folders to be created in the Trainer Repo:
fe_notes.txt or .docx
folder for each day
day1_topicname

There must assignments folder in which again we have day1, day2, ... folders in which we have the problem statements.

Trainer must learn and explain how to Host the website on Day9

Trainer must have minimum 10 examples for each day.
3 to 4 examples trainer will do in session1 and session2.
3 to 4 examples students will do in session3.
3 to 4 examples students will do as home work.

IMPORTANT FILES TRAINERS MUST ACCESS:
trainer preparation text file
daywise_schedule text file
trainers_meet text file
daywise material text file
pdf file in day2 folder on html_css_bs examples
pdf file in day4 folder on js examples

Please review the day wise examples

Trainer must show the day agenda to the students at beginning of session1 of each day